So, guys, straightaway let us discuss the heat memory management.
We will discuss the concepts and implementation behind heat memory management done by the Linux operating
system.
So let us suppose that you are given a huge chunk of contiguous memory.
So remember, the heat memory segment is a contiguous memory, which represents the process which will
address the space, right.
So heat memory is a part of process which will address the space.
And you can see that this horizontal slab represents our deep memory segment of a process.
You can see that on the left hand side, that left leftmost address is the lower address.
And the rightmost address of this heat memory segment is the highest address of this heap segment.
So the requirement is that the process should be able to allocate its smaller chunks of memory as the
requested size from this heat memory segment.
Right.
And whenever needed.
And this is how standard Marlock function works using mallock function, the process request and a number
of bytes from the operating system whenever the process desires.
Similarly, process should be able to return back those smaller chunks of memory which it had requested
back to the heat memory segment and process is not bound to return those smaller chunks of memory in
any particular sequence.
It can return the smaller chunks of memory which it had requested in any sequence it wants.
And this is how standard free function works, right?
And the third requirement is that you are not allowed to use any supporting data structures for heat
memory management of a process.
The reason is that if operating system uses and is supporting data structures, that those data structures
would in turn need separate memory, which is not available to you.
So here you can see that this is a kind of chicken and egg problem.
To manage a memory of a process, you need additional memory.
Right?
And for that additional memory, you again need some data structures to manage that original memory.
So it's a chicken and egg problem.
So operating system is not allowed to use any other supporting data structures in order to manage the
heap memory segment of a process.
We will see how operating system does that.
So let us see how operating system at a lower level implement the following schemes that we have just
discussed.